In this lecture, we'll be looking at the access modifiers.
What they are and how we can use them.
By the end of this lecture, we'll have our porn's visually represented.
So that's gonna be important before we get started.
That whilst we're using these in the context of components at the moment, a lot of the specifiers would
allow us to define how properties such as variables in the structures functions.
And of course, the components all behave in blueprint.
So for simplicity going forward, I'm just going to refer to all of the effect keys as properties throughout
the lecture.
So in the graph, we can see a selection of the main modifiers that you'll see when using Unroll C++.
There are gonna be many more of these.
But understanding these will put you in a really good position to begin.
And all of these can be found on the documentation page, which is actually fairly thorough in their
descriptions here.
So if we start with the most simple of the specifiers and they're going to be the blueprint Read-Only
and the blueprint read.
Right.
But these simply define whether the property can be only viewed with the read only or also altered with
the read write when referring to the derived classes in the blueprint counterparts.
As an example of how this works, you're probably familiar with the get set option for variables in
blueprints.
So a property with Read-Only assigned would only allow you to use the get option inside of the blueprint,
whilst one with the read write specify will allow you to get unset the variable inside of the blueprints.
Next, we can see all of these specifiers in the middle.
Kind of share similar aspects which are the anywhere.
Instance only.
And default only of these three types there, then two variations, which are the visible specifiers
and the edit specifiers, so per property specify, you can only use one visible or edit modifier and
you cannot mix and match visibility and edit modifiers in the same you property section.
So as lovely as this graph is, this is one of those things is going to make a lot more sense with some
examples in the editor in the pawn base had a fall.
I've added a few demo properties, all of type int.
And the important thing here is that each one is named to represent their U.
Properties specified.
I'll be removing these a little bit later so you don't need to follow along in code.
These aren't unless of course, you wanted to pause the video and do so before I continue.
But all of these will be described in this in the editing as I go through anyway.
So inside of the edits, I'm just going to go into the pawn tank blueprints.
Either of these would have worked.
And then at the top in the details panel, we can see the new demo category, which are all of the integer
values that I've created.
The first two things that are evident here is that the difference is between our visible and edit specifiers.
So the visible variables are great out, meaning that we can only see them, which is gonna be great
for debugging, and also ensuring that people don't accidentally override any of these variables in
the editor, whereas the edit variables are all available to edit, making them great for debugging
as well, but also easy access to prototype and quickly iterate through different variables and tests.
The Nexen and we then notice is that I had six different variables.
However, only two of them are appearing here and they're both kind of the same.
So we noticed that we have the edit and visibility specifiers both showing that anywhere and default
only variables.
So anyway, of course, is going to be shown anywhere in the editor when you're inside of the engine,
whilst the default only is only going to show in the class or child of that derived class.
So that's what class as being defo here.
So that leaves us missing one specify, which is the instance only.
So I'm just going to return to the map and then drag in an instance of the porn tank into level.
And with that selected, we can see that we still have four values and we have the same two types,
the visible and edit in the demo section.
But this time we see that we still have our anywhere.
But then the second value is the instance specify.
So again, that's just what the engine will class as an instance as anything.
You're placing or spawning in the level or in the map itself.
Where's default?
Is the default blueprint class derived from the parent?
So the main difference is whether you're going to want the variable to be seen or edited and then whether
you want that to be available in the blueprint class, in the editor or anywhere, which would obviously
be both of them.
Now, the other thing that we've touched on as well is that of the blueprint rights.
So I'm going to return to the head of file and add a couple of these just as an example to show how
we can use them so we can have these anywhere.
But as the visible anywhere and edits anywhere are going to be the most similar.
I'll just add one of each to these variables here so these can be combined with the visibility and the
edit modifiers as one is intended to be altered and affect the editor functionality, whilst the blueprint
modifiers are intended to edit and modify the blueprint functionality inside of the blueprint graph.
If I search for the visible anywhere variable that I've created, we can see that I'm only provided
with the option to get the variable as this is the one I've set to be Blueprint Read-Only, meaning
that I can only check the variable inside of the blueprint.
In comparison, if I then search for the edit anywhere in it, which is the one I've set to be blueprint
read write available, I'm going to be provided with the get and the set options.
So this is going to allow me to check and also set the variable inside of blueprint's.
So hopefully that makes a little bit more sense with how these can all be used.
It's one of those things.
There's not really a complete right answer for a lot of the different scenarios.
You'll be using them and you'll just get more used to which one is going to be more convenient or proved
to be the best option for your project and your workflow as you go through the more times that you have
to kind of create and define the properties for variables and components.
So let's go back on over to our pawn base header and see how we can start using some of these to expose
our components to our blueprint classes.
So first, so I'm just going to remove the demo variables.
Like I said, we won't be keeping these.
And this will just tidy the class back up a little bit.
So inside of the you capture component you property declaration, we just want to control festival,
whether this is visible or editable and where this will apply.
So four components.
We actually use the visible anywhere.
And this is very standard.
If you were to look at a lot of the standard unreal classes, such as the character, which will already
be using things like the capsule components and other sort of movement components and things, these
are all set to be visible anywhere.
So this is just one of those workflows that has tended to be adopted by other people.
And this is going to allow us.
To change the default properties anywhere in the editor, then next, we know that all of these are
very visual components and we won't want to be changing any references or things like that to them in
blueprint's at runtime.
So we'll be setting it to a blueprint read-only.
Then we're also going to add a category and call it components.
This just makes it a little bit easier for us to find when we expose things in the details panel.
You may have noticed earlier that I mentioned a few times that I dropped all of my integer variables
into a Demos category.
That's what this is going to do for us here.
And then finally, because we're keeping these components private, we're going to get some compilers
due to trying to expose a private property to a blueprint with the visibility specified.
So to get around this, we're just going to want to add a matter specify which will be equal to the
allied private.
Access equals to tree.
Be sure to copy the text exactly as it's written here, including the quotation marks and encapsulated
braces.
And we'll be keeping most of our properties private just for kind of standard class security in C++
to avoid having other classes, being able to access variables and functions that we don't want them
to potentially accidentally override.
We're gonna keep them private for those purposes, however.
Unreal kind of adds an extra complexity to this because we still want them to be available in the editor.
This is why we need to apply this private access to these variables rather than just making everything
public.
Because if you were to do this, then that means that the future classes that we create could very easily
kind of drop in.
Change a variable from outside of another class.
And it can become a little bit confusing to kind of keep track of where all of these changes are happening
with that final change made.
All of our components will be exposed in the same way.
So I'm just going to copy the first you property and paste this over the other component you property
specifies.
Again, these changes are going to be best made with the editor closed or ensuring you close and reopen
the editor after saving and before heading over to recompile.
So going forward, I'm just going to assume that those steps are being taken to avoid hot reload issues,
which is the term for compiling from the editor.
Okay, so if the compile complete.
If we navigate to either of the blueprint classes, I'll use the tank class for this example.
And if it doesn't, by default, just be sure to open the full blueprint, Ed.
So if we start by selecting the components, we can see that we now have all of the details exposed,
as we'd expected in the details panel.
Whilst we're here, we can also start by setting up our classes.
So in the tank class, let's set the base match to s.m, underscore a tank base and the turret mesh
to s.m underscore tank turret.
We can also grab the capsule component now and set the scale so that it fits roughly around the base
and the turret.
And then you might also want to drag the base mesh down just a little bit here.
So I think that's going to look fine in the level.
And as though the wheels are kind of resting on the floor correctly.
We also then want to set our projecto spoon point to rest somewhere just in front of the tart Bairo.
And then we're just going to very quickly repeat these steps for the turret class as well.
So if we start by setting the bass mesh to the s.m underscore turret base and the turret mash to s.m
underscore tower turret, a little bit of a tongue twister.
This gives us a good idea of how much we need to scale the cultural component.
And then finally, with that in place, we can also move the projectile spawn points in place here to.
So this may look a little bit far away, and it was the same for the tank as well.
But because of the way that we've got quite a large static mesh representing the projectile as well
as the particle effects were going to put on in the Polish section of the course.
We actually want to give this a fair amount of distance.
Otherwise, it's going to look a little bit strange with the projectile kind of spawning inside of the
turrets with the particles and stuff being there as well.
So I would just keep this quite far away from the end of the turret.
And there we go.
So from the same base, C++ class, we've now created the start of two unique classes and we now know
how to expose the components using the access modifiers.